Simply put, it is impossible to overstate the beauty of a Manuel Antonio beach sunrise. Having the sun as an alarm clock is a pretty cool experience as well. 5:30 came faster than I might have hoped and with it came one big, bright ball of burning gas glowing off the calm surf of the Pacific. I scratched my sacrificial ankles that the bugs of Manuel Antonio seemed to really enjoy and stretched out in the backseat. Slipping on sandals and sliding out the back seat I gave our guardian angel a thumbs up. He returned the gesture.

The beach was completely deserted. We had beaten the locals to paradise this morning. Sand between the toes has a calming effect, making it all the more simple to enjoy the dwarfing power of an endless sea alight with the most natural colors and waves casually breaking because they’re in no rush, they’ll be back.

Parched and hungry, the three of us piled back into our Hyundai and headed back over the hill. Quepos was still asleep as well, aside from the occasional bicycler pedalling slowly, knees straight out to the sides. Most shops were closed aside from the few local breakfast spots and supermarkets.

Signs on the hill seemed to indicate 7am was the earliest business began so we planned to grab some necessities from a supermarket and head back up the hill. Walking into our first Costa Rican Super was a very real reminder of the comfort and excess we enjoyed in the states. We grabbed the only 2 tubes of sunscreen in the whole joint, jealousy of the tan filling up inside me, a package of water likely intended for individual sale and some fruits.

Few things strike fear into the hearts of soft gutted American travelers as Montezuma’s revenge and thus bottled water is more valuable than it’s weight in Colones. Breaking the seal of a fresh, cold bottle of water is as refreshing a sound as popping the cap on a pure sugar cane bottle of Coke. Paired with fresh fruit from down the road and it doesn’t matter how few hours of rest you get, life is good.

Back up the hill we went, stopping halfway up at La Colina (translated into The Hill). As it was still 6:30 we decided to Occupy the open air reception area with a coincidentally perfect 3 benches. Half asleep we were the least active Occupy gathering since before the movement’s inception. Mostly because we were fine paying for a little breakfast and a place to lay our tired heads. A simpler, quite and probably happier life trumped the 24 hour service we had come to expect from hospitality establishments up north.

Not long after we took over the reception area a scooter sputtered into the parking lot and Estaban appeared to situate us. Room #9 would be perfect for us, though we had yet to discover it was atop a staircase reminiscent of the one in the opening of Ace Ventura 2. Delivering our belongings to #9 and getting our first exercise of the trip, we descended back towards reception for a typical Costa Rican breakfast.

To remind you once more, we weren’t in America where portions are only slightly less bloated than the average person eating them these days. After that morning’s banana, my stomach still had some vacancy. When our breakfast came it dawned on me they weren’t plating for 6’4” Americans and I quickly shovelled down the eggs, rice, toast and pineapple. It was satiating but my gut warned me it wouldn’t last long.

On the bright- really bright- side, my first sip of coffee was so good it was almost enough to convince me to stay there forever. Of course I’m an addict so my reaction might be a tad extreme. But as I sit in an artisan coffee shop back in the states writing this I can attest that the difference is drastic. Alas, even after throwing back the best diesel fuel my gullet had ever tasted my body still wanted a little shut eye. At 7:30 the town really had yet to wake up itself and a little shut eye was the fuel we really needed.

It wasn’t too difficult to pass out for the next 3 hours. In fact it was definitely more difficult to wake up but you hotel rooms are the last place you want to be on vacation; we were all eager to return to the beach and see it during normal “business” hours. Joe and I forced Kerry to thickly coat our backs with the last 50 SPF in all of Quepos, mine a little more thick as I am significantly more fair skinned, aka pale as hell.

The beach, and everything around it, was alive with commerce of every kind. Ushered into a side street our unofficial parking attendant asked for $4. That seemed reasonable so we paid him and asked him to keep watch of the car. We didn’t make it the 10 yards to the sand before the first proposition for party favors. We had a target on our backs.

I imagine in the locals’ eyes I look like the epitome of privilege. Overweight and pale translates to well fed and pale so why not go in for the hard sell? Strolling down the beach towards the permanent shops, as opposed to the daily reconstructed vending overhangs, one thing was clear: everything was for sale (or rent) here. This community didn’t have resort branding or a police presence to control the social structure, the beach was run by a bunch of independent contractors. Most of the sought to befriend you, offering advice like to buy beer at the supermarket because it was cheapest, in an attempt to become your de facto connection to all things tourism.

The most ambitious were on the streets, helping park cars and getting the first introduction, while a more casual salesman laid in hammocks strung between two palm trees on the beach largely waiting for passersby to engage them. These casual salesman cleverly referred to the beach as their office, emulating apathetic surfers from California. They seemed less likely to bargain but more honest to deal with.

After grabbing lunch and a few drinks we visited the supermarket for cheap beer. Cervezas in hand we hit the beach. Our friend from the hammock got us a couple of lounge chairs and an umbrella for his office which we made our basecamp for the day. Our businessman also had a little friend with him, a very dirty dog hobbling on three legs.

I asked him it that was his dog carrying a ball around with him. “No,” he said, “that’s Beach Dog.” Asking for a bit more clarification he explained that in the morning the dog finds him because he throws the ball for the dog all day and at night the dog goes off to wherever he sleeps. They grab snacks or are fed by local businesses and spend their days enjoying Costa Rica.

These community dogs, while insanely dirty, were very friendly and well behaved. Many lived on the beach while others stayed up the hill, rotating between various hostels and hotels, all relying on the generosity of the local community; collars were unnecessary.

But alas, Beach Dog had a playdate with our new amigo and I had to experience the Pacific for the first time. I don’t know if anyone else has an irrational fear of sharks in shallow sea water, but I do. I always get over it in a few minutes but I like to imagine their are better targets in the water than I. Watching a guy body surf quite a bit farther out I decided sharks would definitely eat him first.

Shark bait over to my left was old but looked pretty good at body surfing. There’s a preview for a movie about body surfing before 180 Degrees South, one of my favorite movies, so I had always wanted to give it a shot. My first few attempts were basically me laying in the water while a salty ass wave crashed on my head. Kerry and I decided to swim over to the old guy and get some advice.

He was really tan so I started with Spanish but he responded with a very American, “what?” We got to know each other while getting tips on body surfing; he grew up in Detroit but had enjoyed living in more liberal areas like Colorado recently. He visited Costa Rica often and seemed to have a pretty good grasp on how things worked here. I knew we had found a winner when we asked him where he was staying in Manuel Antonio and he told us that he drove in from San Jose that morning where he lived in a brothel WITH FREE BREAKFAST. Ya know, because when you’re deciding between whore houses in foreign countries the complimentary continental breakfast is a big selling point.

While we probably had different moral compasses I appreciated another libertarian at heart. He informed us that the weed often was usually overpriced and not great but San Jose had some really good other drugs. He was solely living for the present but his eyes showed absolute contentedness.

For the next hour or so we tried body surfing with various results. I built my confidence starting on smaller waves and riding them in to shore. Moving out to large waves included everything from riding it all the way in and almost losing my suit from the pull back to being slammed into the ocean floor. All in all it was very rewarding but equally tiring.

Back to the shore for cervezas we waded, bidding ado to the Detroit Hedonist still enjoying his freedom. Skin turning pink, even with 50 SPF caked on, I hid under the umbrella finishing off the locally brewed suds and relaxing. The next visitor we had to our beach base camp with Roscoe, local surfer and ridiculously shredded. His air was the most casual of everyone on the beach, offering us boards, kayaks, jet skis and pot to which we all denied. Spirits and enthusiasm still at an all time high he gave us the hang ten hand signal and wished us a Pura Vida as he moved onto the next umbrella.

Out of beer and needing to wash the sand out from between my large thighs we headed back to the hotel. I reflected on the beach economy realizing the locals had unofficial lifeguards on duty, regularly collected trash and seemed to watch over the belongings of tourists that rented their services. Operating semi independently they all had the same goal of keeping the beach as attractive to tourists as possible so as to keep earning money, Adam Smith’s dream.

Back at La Colina Joe and I agreed the beach cervezas weren’t enough and it was almost happy hour at the pool bar so we should go. It being the week after Easter, things were a bit slow around the hotel and the pool bar was empty. Our bartendress also happened to be co-owner of the hotel. Natalia, Moscow born and bred had married her American husband (who we shall meet in the subsequent chapter) while he was a chef in Moscow. Unfortunately for her, he could not take living in Russia very long and she didn’t want to live in America so they settled on buying a hotel in Costa Rica.

And so here she stood 6 years later, serving us a hearty combination of Costa Rican brews and liquor in the name of happy hour. Among butchering simple Russian like “spasiba” we also discussed local affairs with Natalia. She suggested we eat at Barbara Roja, or Red Beard for dinner. Upon happy hour’s conclusion we took her advice and made way for Barbara Roja.

There we uncovered the new American dream derailed, embodied by our nights entertainment. Pardon me for forgetting the band and specifically the lead guitarist’s name, I forgot to write it down while trying to bolster Pilsen’s stock price. I did manage to write down a few details about our maestro.

Hailing from the great city of Austin he had relocated to Quepos with his left handed guitar, strung in reverse so he could play it right handed. Not only was he a forward thinker in that regard he also had a bunch of tricks like playing with his teeth and behind his head, none of which was as impressive to the crowd as it was in his head I’m sure. To be honest, I’m pretty disappointed he didn’t go the whole nine yards and tie an acid soaked bandana to his cut forehead and light his guitar right there.

While the entertainment wasn’t world class it was definitely entertaining and the food was pretty damn amazing. We all got different fishes and shared in the feast collectively with a bucket of beers. In fact we even donated a beer to our guitarist, or more correctly he walked by and took Kerry’s half drank beer without blinking an eye. What was once a promising middle of the road (at best) Austin guitarist had come to Costa Rica and graduated to a drunk mess of a beer thief and for that I give him props.

As the band packed up we left Barbara Roja in search of further entertainment. Up and down the hill we searched but nearly everywhere was closed; it was still too early to go home and pass out, the Hill Dogs hadn’t even gone to bed yet. Cafe Milagros still had the lights on, and while it was the farthest thing from a bar, they served alcohol.

The breakfast bar conveniently had three spots for three gringos. A couple Pilsens and a pina colada for us please... yup, Joe had switched to tropical drinks. Another pina colada, no more beers yet. Another pina colada, ok we’ll have two more beers too even though we’re not done yet. Joe was switching back to beer.

Clearly we had drawn attention to ourselves. That’s probably an unfair statement as our combined size was about 19 feet tall and nearly 800 lbs. Sometimes you hear about the 800 pound gorilla in the room, well, that was us. The owner, Adrienne, came over and introduced herself. 20 some years ago she came to visit Costa Rica and forgot to go home.

I envied her. Granted her unwavering optimism and super toothy smile was a bit suspicious but she ran a number of cafes, exported coffee and lived a very simple, happy life. Her business partner, Lance, showed up too. Friendly is the last adjective I’d use to describe him. He did not like us -his loss. Everyone else loved us, I think.

Adrienne’s newly adopted House Dogs had come to visit the restaurant and the employees were starting to close up shop. She offered us one more drink, a beer with lime juice and salt. This might conjure thoughts of Bud Light Lime-a-rita, you’re way off. Think eating a lime that sort of tastes like beer. So refreshing Adrienne reassured us as she threw it back. Choking down the cups of acid we settled the bill and said our goodbyes, promising to return for a cup of her finest joe, hopefully without lime juice.

Back at La Colina we climbed the stairway to heaven, or at least our room, panting heavily. During our conversations with Adrienne we decided to go to the National Park down the hill early. She told us the animals all go and hide after a little bit. Thankfully things shut down early there and we were home before midnight, alarms set and ready for another day in paradise.

I drifted off to sleep, smiling, listening to the sound of Joe sharing his three pina coladas with the local wildlife below our balcony.
