In Joe’s defense I sprang awake at about 3am and donated my lime beer to the local wildlife below as well, and boy oh boy it tasted even more limey the second time around. When our alarms eventually went off at a bright and early 7am I was more than ready for a little coffee. My fingers were crossed it would punch my hangover right in the face.

Breakfast didn’t take long to eat, after all Joe and I had empty stomachs. We packed everything important in my camelbak and off to the beach near the national park we drove. The town and beach workers were still mostly asleep and, after passing a number of people offering cheap parking, we ended up parking right next to the beach for free. Lesson learned, just cuz they’re selling it doesn’t mean it isn’t free.

While there are many paths to the park entrance the locals all make a coordinated effort to send tourists down the path that runs by a hooverville of knick knack shops, selling all sorts of touristy things that could never fit into our bags. As we approached the park a number of officially dressed individuals informed us we needed to buy tickets, kind of like how we had to pay for parking right? Apparently Costa Rica does manage their national parks and after being turned away at the gate we took the walk of shame to the ticket office.

Guides a plenty littered the area between the ticket office and the park entrance, clearly not an accident. Multiple people told us to skip the guide and walk ourselves; we could set our own pace and stop to look at animals where guided tours were stopped. Among the sloths, baby deer, birds and lizards we saw piggybacking off of others tours the forest was littered with white faced monkeys. Like the game of telephone where the message never comes out right at the end we tried to replicate the guides replicating the white faced monkey’s yell.

The guide led park path was probably only a kilometer long, ending with the option to continue down to the semi-private beach and relax or continue into the thick jungle sans guides. Feeling a bit like Charles Marlow we ventured into the Heart of Darkness. Okay, we followed a maintained path taken by dozens of people daily but still I feared the attack of giant spiders and serpents was imminent.

Climbing the gradual incline we sweat profusely and saw very little wildlife. A fork divided the path halfway up between a mountain vista and a secluded cove. Reserving the refreshing sea breeze for the return trip we continued upward. Another kilometer under our feet we got to one of the most beautiful views of the trip. Standing high above the water we stared past vegetation of all types that cupping the a small bay of endless expanse that is the Pacific. Views like that make any hike, no matter how hot and sweaty worth it.

On the descent we bumped into a girl from the Netherlands (who didn’t like my wooden clogs joke) who pointed out a sleeping anteater. Other than the purple and orange sand crabs that was the only animal we got a good look at. Before returning to the more beaten path we followed the other fork down to the beach. Clearly infrequently visited in comparison to other Manuel Antonio sandy spots this beach cove offered another gorgeous vista.

Of course the first thing you had to get past was the old European man napping in his speedo near the shady entrance with a large portion of his pubic bush on display. That’s socially appropriate apparently; I’ll consider him the Kurtz of our adventure.

Waves crashed over the volcanic-looking boulders on either side of the cove beach and the sand was soft and thick under our feet. We didn’t stay long after taking a few pictures at the tip of the rocks but if doing it over I would have relaxed at that beach a good while longer. Alas, the day had just started and Costa Rica had much more for us to see.

Returning to the gringo mobile all hot and bothered we were propositioned by a street man. Gosh I really wanted to say that for the imagery. We were just insanely sweaty, especially from lots of thigh rubbing and I suppose propositioned is a fair word although he was just offering to get us a deal on a catamaran trip to enjoy the sunset and a few drinks. Standing next to our free parking space we had zero interest in playing his game today. Besides we hadn’t eaten in forever and that was far more important.

Not long after though, enjoying the local spin on pizza and some ice cold agua we thought the idea of a catamaran ride sounded good. We’d get our own go get our own deal, or so we thought. It turned out we had met a honest hustler on the beach, at least he was being honest that he could get us a deal. But we were there, ready to roll, and thirsty for a drink or eight so we had to pay a little extra for our mistrust. It was starting to get really difficult to know the real price of anything in this country and my pink skin wasn’t helping get us a fair shake.

We were all paid up for the next couple of hours though with drinks and dinner included so it was time to enjoy the water. Just like that more bad news came our way, we were given wristbands for 8 punches for 8 drinks. No way things were going to get sufficiently rowdy if they were restricting our drink count, especially in the small plastic cups they were using. Joe and I quickly sprang into action “jokingly” offering to use anybody’s extra punches they didn’t want. This of course would pay dividends later in the night, we hoped.

First drink? Well we only had 8 so better make them count: vodka water, one punch down. On the first go around we had to be able to taste what kind of shake we were getting. The first sampling was disappointing and it looked like a girl had already glommed onto Kerry. The night could’ve already been derailed, thankfully things were just getting started.

After Kerry was able to separate himself from our Canadian boatmate Sabrina we decided to try and friendly approach to getting stronger drinks. I introduced us as Los Gringos Gigantes to our bartenders Kevin and Carlos. Kevin was fluent in both Spanish and English and while Carlos was about the most American looking Tico we’d met thus far he didn’t speak a lick of English. Attempting to stick with my Spanish I tried to explain that maybe our drinks should be made to our size. Mas fuerte, stronger, I asker. They laughed and said they understood.

Round two, no punch, there we go. This round was a step in the right direction but Kevin and Carlos were a bit surprised at how fast we returned for round 3. This time we hung around the bar and started to get to know each other. All being around the same age we had some fun teaching Carlos English phrases and them teaching Kerry and Joe Spanish phrases. I’ll let you imagine how this went for five 20 somethings on a boat.

I’ll also save you another long narration about seeing dolphins; they weren’t into showing off much that day. It seemed the dolphins were uninterested in us but Sabrina was back, this time talking to Joe. A Canadian surfer, Sabrina had spent the last who-knows-how-many months traveling the world with her aunt (who amazingly spoke no English, don’t ask me) teaching English and surfing. Her stories didn’t quite add up but then again I’m not sure math was her strong suit.

On our way back from the dolphin watching and drinking area we swung back in towards shore, close to the beach cove we saw Kurtz’s bush at earlier, to snorkel and jump off the upper deck of the boat. While the snorkeling wasn’t great because of low light it was quite fun to drunkenly dive and try to grab little fish swimming buy. It should also be noted that a few vodka waters totally erases my fear of sharks, among many other things.

Even if snorkeling wasn’t ideal, our high flying, fatboy aerobatics off the boat were. It went without saying that 30 feet up we had to do flips off the thing. Joe went first and over rotated, breaking the water with his face. Carlos and Kevin taught him to use “como se dice” when he wanted to know how to say something in Spanish and when he came up he yelled, “como se dice punched in the face” to a roar of laughter. I’m sure it hurt like hell but it really endured us to the boat’s crew.

I had some pretty stellar flips and gainers, racking up my fair share of bodily bruises, but one of our fellow passengers deserves much more coverage than I do. In fact, he probably deserves his own book but I never tried to interview him. Instead I watched from the water as this sextegenarian foreigner approached the edge of the upper deck with nearly paralyzing fear. His facial expressions reminded me of Mr. Bean while swinging wildly between innocent joy to absolute terror. He would stand at the edge for what felt like forever, gripping the railing with white knuckles, until he built up the courage to fall off, screaming the whole way down.

Over and over and over this guy approached the ledge in the same fashion with the same facial expressions and the same ambiguously scared and happy scream until he hit the water. Treading water below and cheering him on I somehow felt a little bit of the tension he was feeling; his behavior was so real and impossible to understand. Aside from getting to know our bartenders that was probably the most enjoyable thing about our catamaran ride.

After the crew had wrangled the lot of us back on the boat they started to serve dinner. We decided it was best to wait until the end and clean up the leftovers so we went back to the bar, still no more punches. Carlos explained that they had a term for really big (and strong he insisted) people: gorillas. Whether he meant big and strong we loved the nickname from the crew and we’d take it, with another round of course.

Dinner was excellent. Mahi mahi with rice and fresh cooked vegetables, all prepared below while we enjoyed dolphins, Sabrina, snorkelling, flipping and drinking. Of course going last and being gorillas our portions were generous, something I never complain about (revisit me looking like the epitome of privilege here). Of course the catamaran party couldn’t last forever but maybe the party could. We chatted up the crew as we pulled into the marina about their Wednesday night plans, proudly pointing out that we had helped finish a handle of Absolute.

Kerry was out at the front talking to one of the other passengers and as we docked they went to shake hands. A perfectly botched exchange found Kerry’s camera falling through a crevice just wide enough and to the bottom of the marina. The bad luck was almost unbelievable. All out catamaran pictures, with others from the trip as well, were on his camera and after sunset the water looked black. In our mind that was the end of the camera.

One of the crewmen was confident he could swim to the bottom with a flashlight and look for it. Looking down at the water I couldn't help feeling like we were wasting time. The impromptu diver grabbed a flashlight and jumped off the ship. Positioning himself below the crack he yelled up to confirm he was in the right area. Right area was pretty subjective considering things don’t exactly fall straight down in water and even a little bit of latter movement would make finding it near impossible but we responded with the affirmative and down he dove. In what couldn’t have been more than 20 seconds he resurfaced holding the camera up high.

Fate it seemed was on our side tonight! And so we celebrated with a shot of vodka in the marina, breaking rules one more time before stepping onto dry land. Thank goodness a shuttle provided the ride back to our hotel because none of us Gorillas were in any shape to navigate a vehicle. Before leaving though we confirmed with our new amigos Carlos and Kevin where we could find them that night in the city. Arriving back at the hotel we were excited to meet Natalia’s husband Mike and his assistant John, who she’d ensured us would be happy to take us out tonight.

To be fair to you reader I must admit that the next 6 hours of our trip is pieced together from our three hazy memories. Of course the plan was to pump the brakes at the hotel bar, enjoy some appetizers and get ready for the night. And of course when you put three drunk Gorillas at a bar with a bartender like Johnny Rojo that plan goes right out the window. We would later learn John, Natalia’s replacement tonight, was well known in Quepos and affectionately nicknamed Johnny Rojo.

Johnny Rojo, as we also came to know him as, was a man stuck somewhere between jaded and apathetic and completely enigmatic. I’m still not 100% Johnny wasn’t a figment of our collective imagination, and possibly a candidate for most interesting man in the Quepos.

Canadian by birth, the Mr Rojo (because we don’t know their real last name) had visited his sister nearly a decade ago while she was spending a brief amount of time in Costa Rica. Clearly Johnny hadn’t had much luck in Canada, though I must opine that I don’t think he exactly situated himself on Luck’s good side, and he saw Costa Rica as a land of opportunity. After meeting Michael six years previous to our meeting Johnny Rojo made it official and moved to Costa Rica. While the cost of living isn’t high in Costa Rica it’s not the cheapest place on the globe and bartending, and surely other side acts, probably wasn’t padding Johnny’s bank account. Regardless, you could count on authentic when it came to Johnny which is a hell of a characteristic to find in people, especially when travelling.

Joe was the first to climb the endless staircase to change. While he was absent the esteemed owner and chef of the hotel arrived. After recounting our happy hour with Natalia and a celebratory toast Michael was off to prepare appetizers. I honestly can’t remember any of the food he made for us beside the coconut shrimp but I do remember it being incredibly good. Somewhere in my memory is a party of Spaniards en route to a wedding on some Caribbean island that I shared a round of tequila shots with. I’m not sure whose decision it was for me to be the next to clean up but away I went.

Some amount of time passed which I couldn’t even begin to guess until I was woken up on one of the beds in our room. I had managed to shower but passed out before making it out the door. That is until Joe came up to get my ass up. Michael and Johnny Rojo were ready to go out, not to mention we were supposed to meet Carlos and Kevin and Club Music any time now.

Still a bit dazed I stumbled back to the bar for a Pilsen and strategy talk for the night. I don’t think we ever got a strategy in place beyond eventually following Johnny Rojo to CanTico. After Johnny made a quick call to his cabbie of choice in Quepos (we never got his number for future trips damnit) we were rolling down the hill to Music. The club was anything but bumping, as is to be expected on a Wednesday night I suppose. Music was conveniently located right about the local bus station so if you got dropped in Quepos and needed a quick drink or dance it was just a staircase away. Unfortunately our catamaran friends weren’t at Music but Michael ordered a round of Pilsens while we waited.

This wasn’t Johnny Rojo’s spot, you could tell he wasn’t feeling it. Honestly though nobody was feeling an empty club above a bus station on a Wednesday night. We let Johnny run a quick errand, finished our beers and got to walking to CanTico. CanTico was named for the Canadian owner and her Tico boyfriend and it was the hot spot in Quepos. We remembered driving past a crowded CanTico on our way in 2 nights ago, people spilling out onto the streets. Not as rowdy tonight, CanTico was still significantly better and maybe our catamaran friends would wander down here after seeing Music was empty. Spoiler alert, we never saw them again, though if we had I’m not we would have recognized them at this point.

Feeling CanTico Joe and I had a quick sidebar in the back of the bar and agreed it was time to turn it up to 11. This night still had a lot of life left in it. Feeling re-energized we started killing the rounds served by the beautiful Genesis. With every passing Pilsen I became more enamored with the elusive Genesis. It hasn’t been mentioned to this point but it’s important to note my Spanish got exponentially better the more I imbibed, a truly beautiful phenomenon. So there I sat speaking like I was born and raised a Tico to the estimable Ms Genesis (pronounced like Hen-ess-ise) about lord knows what, while another bartender was running around throwing a purple and orange sand crab at Johnny Rojo, putting down beer after beer.

In an inadvisable move and showing my Irish-American heritage I ordered a round of Jameson shots. One for Genesis too I insisted! That was until she showed me pictures of her baby on her phone. Things had definitely turned south. While I had no problem that Genesis had to go home to take care of her kid Johnny informed me the baby’s daddy was in fact the Columbian drug kingpin of the area and I should stop talking to Genesis immediately. To make matters worse we only brought cash and Jameson is significantly more expensive than domestically produced cervezas; I just bankrupt us.

Michael thought it was time to go check out a new bar. Good idea. We walked a few blocks down the road, over a bridge Michael suggested there were probably dead bodies under, to an outdoor bar on the edge of town. Being out of money and sensing Los Gringos Gigantes weren’t terribly welcome we turned around. Forgetting our reasons for leaving we stumbled back into CanTico where Johnny ordered rum for the group. Sometime before the bottom of the glass our collective wisdom figured out how to call a cab, another friend of Johnny’s.

We dropped Johnny off at his house, over murder bridge, and made for the hotel with Michael. Arriving in Hunter S fashion I think we shocked the night guard as we poured out of the cab. Michael could have probably passed out standing up at that point but after some light encouragement he was enthused about having a nightcap at the hotel bar. If you haven’t thought at some point in our night “that sounds like a bad idea” this is a good point to think that.

Michael popped the caps off some cervezas while we recapped the night. He was laughing pretty hard when he critiqued my Spanish speaking abilities (which were perfect at this point). I suppose the critique wasn’t all that bad, he did say I had a great accent. The exact quote as remembered by my drunk mind was, “you have a great accent, but shit vocabulary.” Knowing it was so terribly true we had a good laugh at Michael’s assessment. I’m not sure if it was the laughing Michael to provide a second nightcap but something did (possibly my encouragement) and this time he chose red wine.

Why wouldn’t we say yes to a giant glass of red wine at 1 in the morning while the rest of the town slept? Choking down the straw that would break the camels back we listened as Michael apologized over and over for not having hookers at the hotel for us when we came back. Reassuring him it was a non issue didn’t have much effect at all and realizing the night had now gotten completely away from Michael I knew it was time to turn it back down from 11.

Trusting my companions I didn’t learn till the next day I turned it down to zero immediately upon getting back to the room. Try as Kerry might I was dead to the world, even as Joe vomited again off our balcony so loud it woke the hotel’s neighbors. I’m confident we left a strong impression on the town of Quepos and Manuel Antonio in our two days there, a strong start to our Latin American adventure. If life is to be measured by the people we meet and the places we see then we were getting busy livin’.
