No ifs, ands, or m-effing buts about it, we were three big ass GRIN-GOS (please pronounce in a thick Texas accent). But that's not where this story starts so let's back up.

In describing my general state leading up to the trip, prepared would be a pretty big overstatement. In hindsight I packed too much for the 1.5 week excursion. My gym bag was packed full with 3 pairs of shorts, a swimming suit, 1 long sleeve and 3 short sleeve shirts, 4 pairs of underwear and socks and a windbreaker. Oh and my camelbak, a toothbrush and a beach towel. But there's more that goes into traveling to a tropical nation than packing. For starters, having at least some skin pigmentation is a good idea and thanks to my Irish ancestors plus a snowy winter I was sorely lacking in this area. Additionally some semblance of "in-shapeness" isn't a terrible idea as 80 will be a cool day and humid doesn't even begin to quantify the amount of moisture in the air.

I was framing this vacation as a bookend. Starting a new life path in May meant finally coming to grips that my athlete first lifestyle was sunsetting; the time had come to give up college life for something more purpose driven. What the trip became however was so much more.

But I digress. We haven't even gotten to the journey's genesis. Kerry and Joe were leaving Atlanta an hour before I was due to leave Houston, by way of Chicago. Knowing we'd be unplugged from cell service upon leaving the US Kerry informed me, "Takin off, find you in CR". This was a pretty complete summation of our planning for the entire trip.

One United Airlines beef & bean burrito and a bunch of sudokus later I was wheels down in the libertarian utopia of Costa Rica. A quick conversation with customs in which they informed me that I needed to be staying somewhere or they wouldn't let me into the country. I replied, "Puntaneras?" And got back a dissatisfied head shake and a stamp of approval. My gut told me this place was more shackled to the tourism industry then committed to its laws. Casually strolling through the airport it was easy to spot my two compadres: both equally tall, unkempt and clearly not Costa Rican as I was.

Exiting the airport it was dark but we were not about to waste a night in San Jose. We needed wheels, preferably ones that could handle terrain as winding and wild as our three very diverse lives. My español was still very rusty and negotiating the car rental was the first of many Spanglish charades in which we would participate. Against my dissenting opinion, the majority voted to get full insurance coverage in case of extreme disaster. Their foresight is likely classifiable as prophetic. Keys and the jankiest hand drawn map ever seen in hand, we loaded up our 4x4 Hyundai light SUV and hit the open, shockingly well paved, road. Following directions that included a soccer field and various convenience stores, we cut the blackness with our headlights in search of our first destination: Quepos/Manuel Antonio. Kerry and his family had visited some 8 years ago and so we ventured there in hopes of equally good memories.

Well Quepos wouldn't be first. Empty stomachs and full bladders motivated us to stop in Jaco. Jaco Taco, a local establishment, have us our first glimpse into what a deserted tourist beach town looked like. I'm kidding, but seriously, we just missed easter weekend and everyone had cleared out. Jaco Taco also have us our first taste of the local liquor Cacique, distilled sugar cane aka pure gasoline. One lap around town after eating, 3 unappetizing prostitutes and a local passed out face down on the side of the street later we decided the Jacob detour was over and were Quepos bound.

Now, being massive about Latin American travel, we were taken aback by the nearly ubiquitous presence of night watchmen at all sorts of locations: bars, hotels, gas stations, radio towers. Another characteristic of these watchmen is that the majority were seated outside businesses that were entirely closed for the night. Given our above average sizes I think we were generally ambivalent to any and all danger. I just assumed night watchman was just another profession funded by the rampant tourism throughout the country. You know what they say about assuming- it's always a good idea.

Pulling into the anti-metropolis that is Quepos I sat amazed as Kerry's eight year old memories guided us to the unnamed street that connected real Costa Rica with the more tourist-centric Manuel Antonio.

I'm going on a brief tangent about Costa Rican PAVED roads, more on unpaved "roads" will come later. Costa Rican roads see by and large devoid of informational signage, except school zones. To be quite honest any signage seemed like a general recommendation. Speed limits, stop signs- eh, and street names- HELL NO. Directions resembled a detailed list of local businesses like listing the yellow pages. In my head I imagine the DoT conversation going something like this:

> "Okay, so we are really going to pave these few roads?"
> "Yeah, I guess so. It'll be good for shipping."
> "Should we bother naming the streets since truckers already know them?"
> "Nah, fuck gringos."

Were it not for a completely scaleless hand drawn map from the late night car rental workers we would have never made it to Quepos. 

Making it to Quepos/Manuel Antonio in the night was a grand accomplishment for us three suburban boys but we hit a small snag. It appeared as if every hotel was closed as of about 7 and it was nearly midnight. Circling the beach roads, mildly perspiring with windows down and AC up, we all agreed sleeping on the beach would be a great start to our international adventures. After all we were terribly exhausted and a sleepless night in a deserted Manuel Antonio like a poor starting point for our debauchery.

Next to a radio tower surrounded by an unreasonably high fence was a makeshift parking lot, at least by our heavy eyed standards. We figured the gringo mobile would be out of morning traffic while we slumbered under some palms and blanketed by a cooling sea breeze. A night guard cautiously approached his impassible radio tower fence and started speaking at us in Spanish.

My brain wasn't entirely in the mood for another round of Spanglish charades so I asked, "Ingles?". No response. "Hablas ingles?". He returned a tacit, "No". Surly I butchered the hell out of the Spanish language in my ensuing attempt to ask if we could park the car next to him while we slept on the beach. He understood and replied with another negative. Undoubtedly it wasn't that big of an issue, we were only parking for a few hours till we could get a hotel. I asked why, "Por que?". "Es muy peligroso," he said, it's very dangerous. He then proceeded to explain that while sleeping on the beach was a bad idea if we wanted to sleep next to the tower, across the street from the very dangerous beach, he would watch over us. Our own guardian angel was all the convincing we needed.

Joe and I popped open the trunk and folded down the back seat for our bed while Kerry tilted the drivers seat back. In our makeshift accommodations we slowly dozed off to the sound of waves crashing, street youths passing by sand the buzz of bugs investigating Joe and my ankles hanging out the completely open back door, only rarely to be awakened by Joe's elephant-esque snores.
