If yesterday’s morning I had a hangover I’m not sure what to classify this day’s ailment, a minor case of death? Thankfully we only had to drive to Malpais/Santa Teresa that day, a couple hundred kilometers on unknown Costa Rican roads. Apparently Joe and I had failed to notice Kerry stopped drinking at some point last night and felt significantly better than us. He had gotten up at a reasonable hour, ate breakfast, sent a bunch of emails and generally had his life together AKA the opposite of Joe and I.

As it was nearly 10 o’clock hotel breakfast was over. In need of sustenance and a lot of road ahead I would describe my ensuing shower and packing method as haphazard and chaotic. We had promised Adrienne we would visit her at Cafe Milagros yesterday but ran out of time so we’d make up for it today. I crossed my fingers we wouldn’t have to be in the presence of Lance today, my frail state wasn’t in the mood for his negativity.

Just my luck this morning, Lance was busy typing away on his laptop at the breakfast bar. I think he had an irrational fear we were going to have an impromptu orgy with his business partner in the middle of the restaurant or something. In any case neither of us were fans of the other, a sentiment he forced.

Taking a much needed seat, I ordered their strongest coffee and a bunch of water. My deep seeded hankering for Costa Rican coffee was the only thing keeping my body alive at that moment. Joe followed me down the coffee path while Kerry went with his prototypical uber healthy, fresh fruit smoothie making me feel a tinge of guilt for not giving two shits about my body last night. While trying to take notes on last night's debauchery the grand optimist Adrienne showed up, greeting us with her big smile and rapid head nods.

She insisted we try the bacon here in Costa Rica so Joe and I both ordered breakfast dishes with bacon in them. Try as I might I can’t recall what I ordered; I probably couldn’t remember 15 minutes after leaving Cafe Milargros so I definitely have no chance of remembering a week later. I do remember I ate it in as few bites as humanly possible though. Combined with the insanely fresh and potent cups of coffee I downed my body was at least on the road to recovery.

Before departing Adrienne did give us general directions on how to get to Santa Teresa; just take the ferry in Puntaneras she insisted. Roger that, peace Lance. We were back on the open road hangover unabated. Obviously Kerry was in the driver’s seat at this time, unfortunately I was riding shotgun as navigator. My first accomplishment was sending us the wrong way at our first turn. Not a good start. Our lack of a physical map and my shoddy/impaired memory was shaping up to be a big problem. I pulled out my phone figuring I could try and use the sun to approximate our direction and Google Maps to guess what roads we were on.

In a shocking/creepy surprise my phone was fully connected to GPS and had found us on the map. Paranoia be damned, the government could always find me but at least we weren’t completely directionless anymore. I did a pretty solid job from that point forward getting us to Puntaneras, though Google Maps deserved most of the credit at that point. The roads were all paved very well to that point in our travel as well.

At the very point of the Puntaneras isthmus we learned the ferry had already left and the next one wouldn’t be till five. It was around two and the drive to the other side of the Gulf of Nicoya was surely less than three hours. Plus we’d get to see more of the Costa Rican countryside, a major reason we were here in the first place. With Google Maps in hand we were golden, even without street signs so back on the open road we went.

Kerry had a solid four hours of driving under his belt by the time we got out of Puntaneras and I decided to take over for the last (shorter) leg of the journey. Joe, refreshed by backseat naps, moved into the navigator position, putting Kerry in the back. My first time behind the wheel in a foreign country took a little to get used to. When roads lack lines and standard signage the driver is forced to pay much more attention to the road. Eventually I settled in, ready to crush a couple hundred kilometers and get us into Santa Teresa for a beach town dinner.

The day wouldn’t be worth telling you about if I hadn’t gone and fucked it up royally. Yup, that’s right, we didn’t beat the ferry. Well we would have if I hadn’t insisted on a Google Maps shortcut. Why drive all the way around the peninsula when we could just as easily drive across it I postulated. The answer my readers is that you can drive a hell of a lot faster on paved roads. Even worse unpaved has a completely different meaning in Costa Rica than in the US. In fact, I’d go as far as to say that the “road” we were on wouldn’t be classified as such in the states. Google, however, felt it was enough of a thoroughfare to be included on the cached Maps available to us.

Initially turning off the paved road I thought the condition of the road was so ridiculous it couldn’t last long. Boy was I wrong. Scaling our first mountain only a few kilometers in I had to swallow my words about getting full coverage on the vehicle. Not only was the road extremely questionable but GPS service was spotty and coming to our first fork we had to consult the locals whom I can only assume were not used to seeing gringos in these parts.

With a top speed hovering around 25 kilometers/hour we weren’t making much progress across the country and the sun was setting fast, oh and we had dipped below half a tank. At least four hours into our trip on the road from hell I made a wrong turn at a fork. It was obvious because the road got that much worse I just knew Google couldn’t count it as a road. After all if they did the SUV wasn’t returning in one piece.

Stopping by the area convenience store, the only source of ambient lighting in the pitch black country, I had to figure out navigation since I was the only one that sort of knew Spanish. No beer, I was rusty. Start things out easy, I thought, so I asked to buy some water and snacks. He didn’t have any water, he’d get some tomorrow, and all of his food was nonperishable and required cooking. Not only was this convenience store really inconvenient but he had clearly not seen a white, bearded person in a long time if ever. Oh, and his accent as really hard to understand.

Beyond agitated by my idiotic route choice and my inability to communicate with this guy I gave up on procuring sustenance and moved on to asking him how to get the hell out of wherever we were. His face communicated that it was really easy and his brief response seemed to convey it wasn’t complicated; bullshit, I thought. I had to ask him to repeat all those like ten words, more slowly this time. He repeated and shook my hand. I affectionately nicknamed him Mr Grimy Hands as that hand had seen hard work and limited soap.

I got back into the drivers seat, asked for the hand sanitizer, and  told Joe and Kerry his directions. He said something like go back about two kilometers, take a left and then follow the rivers or something and we’ll be right there. Easy enough, back two kilometers I drove and took a left.

Turns out he didn’t say follow the rivers. We pulled up alongside a river and drove into a dead end. What the hell. Turned around went back and looked into the jungle looking for a turn off we missed in the darkness. Nothing. I swore he said take a left back at the fork and GPS confirmed we were on the road but there was nowhere to go.

He did say river and drive, just not next to. He said through. Mr Grimy Hands said drive through the river, as if that was a completely normal driving direction! Convinced we weren’t meant to ford the river with our oxen I went back a few hundred yards to the only two houses we’d seen in a long while. The first guy I asked stared at me with no response and the second group I asked just shouted to drive across; clearly we weren’t getting help here.

Back at the river we took to throwing stones in the river and listening to try and determine relative depth. Completely unsure we’d make it across I weighed the options: turn around and drive as far back till we run out of gas, sleep here in the sweatbox of a vehicle, drive across the river and get stuck or drive across the river and continue on our merry way. The first three options involved sleeping in the car, though the bug density ruled out having the windows open, but the last option had the lowest “success” rate in my mind.

Determined to not let adversity in the form of moving water of unknown depth halt our progress, and quietly pissed I had put us in this mess, I voted to cross the river, oxen be damned. With Kerry hanging out the window to monitor depth I went for it. I’m still not sure how we made it; at probably two feet deep in the middle the river felt pretty strong against the car, though it was my first time driving through a river. Elated and amped our confidence and spirits were renewed.

Costa Rica had a way of checking our emotions as it wasn’t long before we rolled up on a second river. Confident I could hadle this I aimed for the road across the river and went for it. Going immediately up a hill upon the crossing we came to a dead end of barbed wire. Damned if I didn’t scream fuck a dozen times and slam on the wheel. The road was taking a toll on my patience. If this was the way we were up shit creek without a paddle and if it wasn’t then the road was even harder to find than at the first river.

Going back over the river we took tiny iterations of y-turns trying to scan the bank for another road. Off in the distance, what I now know is about two football fields upstream, we thought there might be a road. Given no other options we tested the depth again with rocks. The good news was that this river was definitely lower than the first, the bad news was we’d have to drive up the steam just to see if we had spotted the road. Crossing the river and then driving along the opposite bank in shallower water our prayers were answered and we found our path.

The drive wouldn’t have been complete without one more river to cross, though this one was the shallowest and by that time our fuck-it attitude had been so strongly reinforced we hardly threw any rocks at that crossing.

An exhausting 6 hours later we descended into Santa Teresa nearing the end of business time. Priority one was finding beds. The first place was good enough, even if the guy at the front desk looked like Ben from Lost and it had three separate beds in the room. Yes, negotiating with Ben from the island was really off putting but it was cheap and three beds was all the selling point we needed.

Priority two was eating and right down the street was an Argentinian restaurant, complete with a giant poster of Messi. I didn’t even bother to read the menu past Argentinian steak, after today I deserved it. That was essentially the day, though laying in bed I reflected on the days rollercoaster of emotions. Even given all the frustrations we saw some real scenery and went on a drive I may never get to duplicate in my life; I drove through three rivers and I think that’s pretty cool to say.

Unable to fight heavy eyelids anymore I fell asleep happy because I realized more experiences exist than any of us can ever imagine, whether in Costa Rica, the US or anywhere else in the world if we are willing to open ourselves to the uncomfortable. I’ll lean on a writer much greater than I and say I took the [road] less traveled by, and that has made all the difference.
